Everyone in this lecture, we're going to talk about a very simple problem that is finding the power
of a number.
Okay.
So let me just tell you what the problem statement is.
We are given a number A and we are also given a number N and we want to compute A^N
for example, let's say a is 2 and n is 10, then 2^10 = 1024.
So let's see how we can write this.
Okay.
So a^N
Can be written as
If we talk about the recursive break down, it can be written as
a x a^N-1 so this can become our sub problem.
And once we know the answer for this problem, we multiply it with a and get a^N
And so that is one way of breaking down this problem.
First, let's see this way.
And in the next video, I will teach you an optimized way of doing the same.
Okay, so let's quickly code this up and we will also verify how this power function is going to work
and how much time and space it is going to take.
So let's think about the basis.
So what is the smallest possible value of N?
And so it could be zero.
If it is zero, then a raise to the power
Zero is going to be one.
We can simply return 1
Otherwise I can return a x power(a, N-1)
That's it.
And we are done.
So we will take input a and N and we will compute.
a raise to the power N
so, yes, we are going to do it.
Let's build the code.
And let me show it to you.
So maybe three and five, 3 raise to the power 5 is 243 and maybe two and ten is 1024 working
perfectly fine.
So let's have a quick look how this is working.
So basically, let's say you're doing.
Three raise to the power five
So you have main from main.
You make a call as to this power function.
a is three.
So a is always three.
So you see it 3 raise to the power 5
So it says.
Let me break it into
3 X 3 raise to the power 4
It says, okay, here N is five.
Here we will compute 3 raise to the power 4
It will make a call on
3 raise to the power 3
will make a call on
3 raise to the power 2
Here it will make a call on 3 raise to the power 1
And from here it will make a call on 3 raise to the power 0
So the when this is zero, it is going to return 3 raise to the power 0.
That is one.
One multiplied by three is three, three comes here,  3 x 3  = 9
So it becomes 3 x 9 = 27 and 27 x 3 = 81 and 81 x 3 = 243.
That’s it, this is how we get this particular answer, talking about how much time it will take.
It has performed N number of steps.
It is O(N) how much space it is going to take.
It is also O(N)
Okay.
I hope this is now clear to you and in the next lecture I will teach you an optimised way in which you
can reduce the time and the space complexity of this program in the next lecture.